So context.
Right now we've been looking
a lot of very local state, right?
An example of local state here
would be do I show the modal?
Do I not show the modal?
That's really only important
to the details page.
Or in other words,
if I'm on the SearchParams page,
I don't need to have this show
modal available anywhere but
being inside of details, right?
So local state apps or
UI state would be another term for that.
But sometimes we have things that
like is global app level state.
And the easiest example is that if I
had a user that was logged in, right?
Every page cares about which
user is logged in, and
that would be app level state.
So, there's a bunch of
ways you can handle that.
You do not have to use context, or
Redux, or MobX, or any of those things.
I literally could just go to App.jsx and
I could just say const [user,
set user] = useState(null).
And then whenever a user logs in,
I would just track that under here, right?
And then I would just
pass it in from here.
So I'd say user= and
user=, boom.
Now suddenly everyone has access
to the user all the time.
Awesome, done, right?
And if my app was this big, very valid
that I would do it this way, right?
But now imagine I have 40 different pages
and 39 of them care about what user it is.
The other one is the about page.
Maybe the about page cares, I don't know.
Maybe you have a really
cool customized about page,
in which case you probably have
too much time on your hands.
That's my opinion.
Anyway, context, this is where context
becomes extremely useful to you, right?
Context is going to be this app level,
generalized state.
Now, this is literally the last
lesson in the intro to React.
I intentionally put this last because
I really don't know want you to
heavily handedly apply this to everything.
Because that's kind of the temptation,
it's like, I have state,
let's make state available everywhere.
Bad idea.
You really wanna be judicious
of where state goes.
And one of the benefits of React is how
explicit data flows in your app, right?
If I have information that's in details I
wanna be able to find where it came from,
right?
And kind of trace
everything where that goes.
As soon as you start introducing context
into your app, you get this indirection.
You have state that comes
from somewhere that
it's kind of hard to
follow where it came from.
So you're getting this
general availability of it,
which makes it easy to use.
But what you're trading off on is
that it becomes difficult to find
where it came from, and how it was
modified, and where the bugs are.
So in other words,
context is a very specific tool,
I need you to have
a specific reason to use it.
So something like a user worthy,
literally every page cares about it and
passing it around becomes impractical.
That is a valid use case for context,
you should use context in there.
But I don't know, if you have two
pages that care about the theme,
I don't know, something like that, right?
Just pass it around like normal state
with using props and children and
stuff like that, right?
So that's my pitch to you.
And I'm gonna show you how to do it, and
I'm gonna ask you to be judicious of how
you apply it, because I might be your
future coworker and I will be upset.
Okay, so basically what I
wanna do is I wanna have like,
if I click here on Luna, I click Yes,
I wanna be able to show that to
users on my Adopt Me page, right?
I wanna show them a little picture
here of the pet I'm about to adopt.
That's the context that
we're gonna use here.
So first things, pop over and
make a file called AdoptedPetContext.
And this can be .js, .jsx.
Because we're not gonna major in jsx,
I'm just gonna do .js.
I'm going to import
(createContext) from 'react',
const AdoptedPetContext = createContext,
export default AdoptedPetContext.
So you can come in here and
give it a default value.
But typically you don't
wanna have default context.
But if you did,
this is where you would do it, right?
Maybe you have an array of a cart, right?
Like an array of items.
By all means putting an empty
array there that makes some sense.
And we'll have to do this with TypeScript.
TypeScript is going to make
you have a default value,
but for now, we're not gonna do it.
I'll show you in a second, but basically,
you'll never have a default value for
your context or you shouldn't.
Okay, so let's go to App.jsx and
make use of it.
You've already been using context because
you've been using BrowserRouter and
QueryClientProvider here.
These are both using context
under the hood, just so you know.
That's the entire purpose of these
things is to provide context to
things underneath them.
Okay, up here I want you to import state,
or
rather useState from react.
And then somewhere under
here you're going to import
AdoptedPetContext from AdoptedPetContext,
okay?
Up here we're gonna say const
adoptedPet = usesState(null).
Okay?
And then somewhere in here we'll just
do it under the QueryClientProvider.
We're gonna have
AdaptedPetContext.Provider and
the value is going to
be equal to adoptedPet.
Okay?
And then just wrap everything inside of
that with that, and there we go.
What this is doing,
is it's now making this adoptedPet
available to any consumer of
AdoptedPetContext inside of it.
So now details has it available,
SearchParams has it available, and
they can both use them whenever they want.
Hopefully you're seeing there's
some indirection to this, right?
I now have this adoptedPet, which is going
into details and going into SearchParams.
But the data flow here is
no longer explicit, right?
Explicit would be saying
adoptedPet = adoptedPet, right?
But we're not doing that anymore.
Okay, you notice we're just
passing the whole hook here.
We're using a hook together with context,
you don't have to.
You can basically think of this provider
on context as a wormhole, right?
So I can dump stuff out of it and
then later I can go to another part of my
app and
I can pull stuff out of the wormhole.
And what happens in the middle
is anyone's guess, right?
So I'm putting a hook into this, but
it could be an object, it could be
a number, it could be a string.
It doesn't care what
type is going into it.
It's a method of transportation and
that's it.